Controller Group Metrics (#26850)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/observability/metrics.rst

======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================
``controllers_runs_total``               ``status``                                         Enabled    Number of times that a controller process was run
``controllers_runs_duration_seconds``    ``status``                                         Enabled    Duration in seconds of the controller process

> ``controllers_group_runs_total``         ``status`` ``group_name``                          Enabled    Number of times that a controller process was run, labeled by controller group name (configurable)

Reviewer: I would mention it also in the clustermesh-apiserver and kvstoremesh tables.

> ``controllers_group_runs_total``         ``status`` ``group_name``                          Enabled    Number of times that a controller process was run, labeled by controller group name (configurable)

Reviewer 2: Can you add a comma between the labels and remove the `(configurable)` from the Description? The text you added below the table explains that it is configurable already. [1]

```suggestion
``controllers_group_runs_total``         ``status``, ``group_name``                          Enabled    Number of times that a controller process was run, labeled by controller group name
```

``controllers_failing``                                                                     Enabled    Number of failing controllers
======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================

The ``controllers_group_runs_total`` metric reports the success and failure
count of each controller within the system, labeled by controller group name
and completion status. Due to the large number of controllers, enabling this
metric is on a per-controller basis. This is configured using an allow-list

> which is passed as the ``controller-group-metrics`` configuration option,

Reviewer 2: In all of these descriptions that you added, can you change `option` to `flag` here, to make it clear to the user that this is something they need to pass to the binary? The word `option` might make users think this is a helm value that they can look for, especially in the description for clustermesh and kvstoremesh where the `prometheus.controllerGroupMetrics` helm value isn't listed. [3]

```suggestion
which is passed as the ``controller-group-metrics`` configuration flag,
```

``lbipam_services_unsatisfied_total``                                                                      Enabled    Number of services which did not get requested IPs
======================================== ================================================================= ========== ========================================================

Controllers
~~~~~~~~~~~

======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================
Name                                     Labels                                             Default    Description
======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================

> ``controllers_group_runs_total``         ``status`` ``group_name``                          Enabled    Number of times that a controller process was run, labeled by controller group name (configurable)

Reviewer 2: See [1]

======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================

The ``controllers_group_runs_total`` metric reports the success
and failure count of each controller within the system, labeled by
controller group name and completion status. Enabling this metric is
on a per-controller basis. This is configured using an allow-list
which is passed as the ``controller-group-metrics`` configuration

> option. The current default set for ``cilium-operator`` found in

Reviewer 2: I can't find a change to the `cilium-operator` deployment in this PR. Is the operator reading this from the `cilium-configmap` like the agent? If so, can you use the same language that you used for the agent here?

Reviewer 2: Also see [3]

> the Cilium Helm chart is "all", which enables the metric for all
> controller groups. The special names "all" and "none" are supported.

Reviewer 2: Can you reword this last sentence a little bit to help introduce that "all" is a special name before describing it as the default value? I was thinking of something like this:

```suggestion
the Cilium Helm chart is the special name "all", which enables the
metric for all controller groups. The special name "none" is also
supported.
```

[2]

``api_limiter_wait_duration_seconds``          ``api_call``, ``value``          Mean, min, and max wait duration
============================================== ================================ ========================================================

Controllers
~~~~~~~~~~~

======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================
Name                                     Labels                                             Default    Description
======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================

> ``controllers_group_runs_total``         ``status`` ``group_name``                          Enabled    Number of times that a controller process was run, labeled by controller group name (configurable)

Reviewer 2: See [1]

======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================

The ``controllers_group_runs_total`` metric reports the success
and failure count of each controller within the system, labeled by
controller group name and completion status. Enabling this metric is
on a per-controller basis. This is configured using an allow-list
which is passed as the ``controller-group-metrics`` configuration

> option. The current default set for ``clustermesh-apiserver`` found

Reviewer 2: See [3]

in the Cilium Helm chart is "all", which enables the metric for all

> controller groups. The special names "all" and "none" are supported.

Reviewer 2: See [2]

``api_limiter_requests_in_flight``             ``api_call``  ``value``          Current and maximum allowed number of requests in flight
``api_limiter_wait_duration_seconds``          ``api_call``, ``value``          Mean, min, and max wait duration
============================================== ================================ ========================================================

Controllers
~~~~~~~~~~~

======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================
Name                                     Labels                                             Default    Description
======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================

> ``controllers_group_runs_total``         ``status`` ``group_name``                          Enabled    Number of times that a controller process was run, labeled by controller group name (configurable)

Reviewer 2: See [1]

======================================== ================================================== ========== ========================================================

The ``controllers_group_runs_total`` metric reports the success
and failure count of each controller within the system, labeled by
controller group name and completion status. Enabling this metric is
on a per-controller basis. This is configured using an allow-list
which is passed as the ``controller-group-metrics`` configuration

> option. The current default set for ``kvstoremesh`` found in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
flag. The current default set for ``kvstoremesh`` found in the
```

> option. The current default set for ``kvstoremesh`` found in

Reviewer 2: See [3]

the Cilium Helm chart is "all", which enables the metric for all

> controller groups. The special names "all" and "none" are supported.

Reviewer 2: See [2]
